hi I'm Tim and welcome to watch you want
calm thanks for logging on today we're
looking at one of the most unique
watches I have ever reviewed for this
series this is the generic wilt reversal
squadra chronograph GMT Palermo open
special edition now those who know the
history of judge erlick coold signature
watch the reverse so know that it was
originally conceived as something
approaching the original sports watch
British polo players in India wanted a
watch that they could use while playing
polo without shattering the crystal so
the solution was to create a watch that
could rotate on a fixed chassis
essentially turned the crystal and the
dial away from the blows and protect
them underneath the chassis until the
match was over it also presented great
canvas for engraving but as sports watch
technology progressed and thermoplastic
and then sapphire crystals were
introduced to the luxury watch room the
Reverso became a watch whose platform
supported complications a second dial
for complicated functions are reversed
with a sapphire case back for displaying
complicated movements and I'm happy to
say that this palermo opens special
edition features both complications and
a beautiful display case back now
another fact about that original Reverso
from the 1930s is that the patent
drawings for the first watches were
actually more square in profile than
rectangular and while the reversal has
become known as a rectangular watch the
reality is that if we want to be true to
the original drawings as proposed by jlc
engineers the bottom line is that it was
a tricked it was a square watch
so the squadra is sort of getting back
to the spirit of the original on three
levels first there's that shape which is
rapidly re-establishing itself as a
worthy and well-known facet of the
reverse owes patrimony the second is the
notion of incorporating sporting
elements to what had become a dress
watch by the 1990s this squadra is far
tougher than the dress reverse owes it
has significantly more water resistance
with five atm water resistance this
watch is good for lights
swimming jumping in the pool maybe not
the high dive but this watch can get wet
this is not a splash only sports watch
it also features a return to jail sees
historic connection to polo through the
reversal model because this is the
Palermo open special edition it recalls
one of these signature events on the
polo World Cup circuit the Palermo open
which is held at the Palermo venue of
sort of the Yankee Stadium of polo in
Argentina and this watch with its unique
rubber lugs and rubber case flanks
features an element of scuff and scratch
resistance and ruggedness that you
expect in a sports watch plus it has a
canvas strap that is likely to outlast
any hide whether it be alligator calf or
otherwise this is a tough watch this is
a remarkably Hardy Reverso and it's a
very sporty reverse so that combination
of the white metal the black details the
black geo shade dial with the white
Arabic numerals it's high legibility and
it also features the classic sporting
complication it has a junior local
caliber 751 with an in-house chronograph
a large date at 12 o'clock and a
separate small GMT 24-hour dial that can
be set separately from the local time at
the dial Center so you have a lot of
functionality here and as I suggested
earlier this watch features a display
case back with a thoroughly modern
movement not only is the movement modern
I'm gonna reveal something else
this watch is an automatic winding
reverse though so you can see the
winding rotor unidirectional for
optimized efficiency jLF see actually
conducted studies and found that a rotor
that winds in one direction only will
wind the watch more efficiently and
faster so there have been very very few
automatic reverses throughout the
watches 80 plus year history so to have
one of those watches such that you've
got the everyday wearability of an
automatic watch that you never have to
tend to after you set the time that's a
great feature to have in a reversal and
it's a rarity the watch is also tough
that features a free sprung balance so
in addition to those rubber guards on
the case that Hardy water resistance
that far exceeds the standard
Reverso and the high legibility dial
you've also got a movement in the free
sprung balance that's less likely to
become subject to error if it encounters
a knock or a shake or high-frequency
vibrations or the kind of undulation you
experience while riding a horse in polo
I'm not necessarily sure I would use
this watch for polo but it's nice to
think that you could if you wanted to
beyond that column wheel actuation for
the jlc in house 751 caliber ensures
that this watch starts stops and resets
with the crispness that you expect of a
top-end chronograph resets precisely
there's no stagger there's no jump
forward or backwards when you start this
chronograph it's a vertical clutch the
most modern standard for the smoothest
chronograph action and because it's a
column wheel you get the most tactile II
satisfying chronograph actuation beyond
that the watch has a 65 hour power
reserve so if you do have a rotation of
JL C's or several reversals or even a
general collection put the swatch down
for a day it's not going to stop even -
as long as you keep you know
occasionally wearing it because of its
efficient winding it's automatic winding
and it's long power reserve you should
be okay this is an exceptionally
different reverse so the squad reserve
rare watches and I'm not going to lie
they appeal to a different sensibility
than the standard reverses if you like
watches like the blo Big Bang the 44
millimeter Rolexes if you like autumn
RPG a Royal Oak Offshore 's and that's
probably the best comparison because
autumn RPK gives you a lot of in-house
watch making quality finishing quality
and higher ology pedigree but in a big
watch that's not bashful that's really
the market that the jl c reverse of
squad Rah's tackle they tackle the watch
enthusiast who likes a big watch likes
an expressive watch but wants a fine
watch and a pedigree to match and this
reverse of squadra has it check it out
on our website watch you wat comm we are
the International leaders in luxury
pre-owned watches all of our watches are
photographed in depth with high
resolution image
of the watch and all accessories
available with it I'm confident that
when you check out this jlc reverse of
squadra chronograph GMT Palermo open
special edition you will be convinced
among high-end reversible sports watches
with coronagraphs and GMTs it will
undoubtedly be the watch you want